docs: Add RapidAPI guide (#2015)
apify/apify-docs: sources/academy/tutorials/apify_actors/adding_rapidapi_project.md

---
title: Adding your RapidAPI project to Apify
description: If you've already published an API project on RapidAPI and want to reach a broader audience, Apify Store and its active user community can help you expand your reach. You can maintain your RapidAPI presence while tapping into the Apify ecosystem.
sidebar_position: 1
category: apify platform
slug: /apify-actors/adding-rapidapi-project
---

If you've already published an API project on RapidAPI and want to reach a broader audience, Apify Store and its active user community can help you expand your reach. You can maintain your RapidAPI presence while tapping into the Apify ecosystem.

---

## Why add your project to Apify?

By publishing your API on Apify, you'll reach thousands of active users in Apify Store. You'll also get access to the Apify platform's infrastructure: managed hosting, data storage, scheduling, advanced web scraping and crawling capabilities, and integrated proxy management. These tools help you reach more users and enhance your API's functionality.

## Step-by-step guide

This example uses Express.js, but these steps work for any Node.js or Python API framework - just adapt the code to your stack.

> You'll deploy your API as an [Apify Actor](https://apify.com/actors) - a serverless cloud program that runs on the Apify platform. Actors can handle everything from simple automation to running web servers.

Author: I will keep it as it is, if you do not mind. :)

> You'll deploy your API as an [Apify Actor](https://apify.com/actors) - a serverless cloud program that runs on the Apify platform. Actors can handle everything from simple automation to running web servers.

Reviewer: I think referring to users with `you` is fine, I wondering more about L19, where we refer to us `We`. Maybe that sentence should be reworked 🤔

> You'll deploy your API as an [Apify Actor](https://apify.com/actors) - a serverless cloud program that runs on the Apify platform. Actors can handle everything from simple automation to running web servers.

Reviewer 2: I don't mind at all, just let's keep it consistent under some rules. This is more between me and Michał, potentially also other Apify tech writers, and if we agree on sth like "in courses we do X, in rest of the docs we do Y", let's put it to `CONTRIBUTING.md` and keep an eye on it in the PRs, that's it.

---
title: Adding your RapidAPI project to Apify

> description: If you've already published an API project on RapidAPI and want to reach a broader audience, Apify Store and its active user community can help you expand your reach. You can maintain your RapidAPI presence while tapping into the Apify ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: If you've published an API project on RapidAPI, you can expand your project's visibility by listing it on Apify Store. This gives you access to Apify's developer community and ecosystem.
```

sidebar_position: 1
category: apify platform
slug: /apify-actors/adding-rapidapi-project
---

> If you've already published an API project on [RapidAPI](https://rapidapi.com/) and want to reach a broader audience, Apify Store and its active user community can help you expand your reach. You can maintain your RapidAPI presence while tapping into the Apify ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you've published an API project on [RapidAPI](https://rapidapi.com/), you can expand your project's visibility by listing it on Apify Store. This gives you access to Apify's developer community and ecosystem.
```

```js
await Actor.init(); // Initializes the Actor

const app = express();
const PORT = Actor.config.get('containerPort'); // Specifies the PORT
const DATA_FILE = path.join(__dirname, 'data', 'items.json');

app.use(express.json());

// Rest of the logic
```

:::tip Readiness checks

The Apify platform performs readiness checks by sending GET requests to `/` with the `x-apify-container-server-readiness-probe` header. For better resource efficiency, consider checking for this header and returning a simple response early, rather than processing it as a full request. This optimization is particularly useful for resource-intensive Actors.

```js
app.get('*', (req, res) => {
    if (req.headers['x-apify-container-server-readiness-probe']) {
        console.log('Readiness probe');
        res.send('Hello, readiness probe!\n');
    }
});
```

:::

### Step 3: Test your Actor locally

Once you’ve added the Actor logic, test your Actor locally with the following command:

```bash
apify run
```

Now, check that your server is running. Check one of your endpoints, for example `/health`.

### Step 4: Deploy your Actor to Apify

> Now push your Actor to the [Apify Console](https://console.apify.com/). You’ll be able to do this only if you’re logged in to your Apify account with the CLI. Run `apify info` to check, and if you’re not logged in yet, run `apify login`. This only needs to be done once. To push your project, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now push your Actor to [Apify Console](https://console.apify.com/). You’ll be able to do this only if you’re logged in to your Apify account with the CLI. Run `apify info` to check, and if you’re not logged in yet, run `apify login`. This only needs to be done once. To push your project, run the following command:
```
